Artifact submission for POPL2021 paper 408
==========================================

Complete claims made by the paper substantiated by this artifact
----------------------------------------------------------------

This artifact substantiates the results claimed in Section 6.2 (Metatheory).

* Key results

The individual results can be found in the corresponding Coq files and theorem 
statements.

      Lemma 6.1 (Regularity)      dqtt.v: Typing_regularity
      Lemma 6.2 (Substitution)    structural.v: substitution
      Lemma 6.3 (Weakening)       structural.v: weakening
      Theorem 6.4 (Preservation)  dqtt.v: preservation
      Theorem 6.5 (Progress)      dqtt.v: progress  

* System specification

The full specification of the type system shown in Section 6.1 is in the file
`dqtt_ott.v`. This file has been generated from the Ott specification `dqtt.ott`,
but then slightly edited, as described below. For convenience, we also provide
the file `spec.pdf` that contains a typeset version of the system, also
generated from `dqtt.ott`.

* Assumptions made in Coq development

The axioms that our development relies on are in the files `usage_sig.v`
and `beta.v`.  The first file is an axiomatization of the partially-ordered
semi-ring structure, as described in Section 2.1 of the paper. The second file
describes the axiomatization of beta-equivalence as specified in Definition
7.1.

The file `dqtt_inf.v` was generated by the LNgen tool
(https://github.com/plclub/lngen) and includes lemma statements about binding
structure, but not proofs. (All of the proofs are "Admitted"). These lemmas
are admitted for convenience. Because these lemma statements are mechanically
generated and because the proofs take a *long* time to compile, we do not
include them here.

Download, installation, and sanity-testing instructions
---------------------------------------------------------

The artifact is available as a virtual box available for download from ...

The source code for the artifact is available from the public github repository:
https://github.com/sweirich/graded-haskell

Evaluation instructions
-----------------------

To evaluate these claims, reviewers should log into the provided virtual box
with the following credentials:

     username: sweirich
     password: popl2021

Then perform the following commands in a terminal window.
  
     cd ~ 
     cd graded-haskell/src
     make clean
     make coq
     
NOTE: to access the latest version of the artifact, reviewers may wish to do a `git pull` 
in the `graded-haskell` directory.

Additional artifact description
-------------------------------

This development has been tested with The Coq Proof Assistant, version 8.11.1
(May 2020).

To compile this code with Coq, you also need to install a copy of the Metalib
library.  This library is available from https://github.com/plclub/metalib

The `src/` directory includes a Coq specification of a dependently typed
calculus with type-in-type, dependent functions, unit, products and sums.

The files that make up the Coq development include:

- dqtt.ott     Specification of the entire system
- dqtt_ott.v   Generated definition (from Ott, modified by hand)
- dqtt_inf.v   Generated lemmas (from LNgen). 
- tactics.v    General purpose tactics
- metalib.v    metalib additions

- beta.v       Axiomatization of beta-equivalence
- usage_sig.v  Axiomatization of partially-ordered semiring

- usage.v      Lemmas about working with usages and with graded contexts (language independent)
- dctx.v     
- dctx_sub. v 
- semimodule.v

- structural.v  Substitution and Weakening (Lemmas 6.2 and 6.3)
- dqtt.v        Regularity, Preservation and Progress (Lemma 6.1, Theorems 6.4 and 6.5)


