README.md, before:

A Graded Dependent Type System
==============================

This repository includes Coq proofs for the results claimed in Section 6.2
(Metatheory) of [this
paper](https://github.com/sweirich/graded-haskell/blob/main/submitted-version.pdf),
conditionally accepted to POPL 2021. 

Artifact evaluators should read the file [ARTIFACT.md](https://github.com/sweirich/graded-haskell/blob/main/ARTIFACT.md).
In particular, a virtual machine is available for download from 
http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~sweirich/popl21-paper408.ova.

* Key results

The individual results can be found in the corresponding Coq files and theorem
statements. (All Coq files are in the `src` subdirectory.)

      Lemma 6.1 (Regularity)      dqtt.v: Typing_regularity
      Lemma 6.2 (Substitution)    structural.v: substitution
      Lemma 6.3 (Weakening)       structural.v: weakening
      Theorem 6.4 (Preservation)  dqtt.v: preservation
      Theorem 6.5 (Progress)      dqtt.v: progress

* System specification

The full specification of the type system shown in Section 6.1 is in the file
`dqtt_ott.v`. This file has been mechanically generated from the Ott
specification `dqtt.ott`, but then slightly edited. For convenience, we also
provide the file
[spec.pdf](https://github.com/sweirich/graded-haskell/blob/main/spec.pdf) that
contains a typeset version of the system, also generated from `dqtt.ott`.

* Assumptions 

The axioms that our development relies on are in the files `usage_sig.v`
and `beta.v`.  The first file is an axiomatization of the partially-ordered
semi-ring structure, as described in Section 2.1 of the paper. The second file
describes the axiomatization of beta-equivalence as specified in Definition
7.1.

Installation and Compilation Instructions
------------------------------------------

This development has been tested with The Coq Proof Assistant, version 8.11.1
(May 2020).

To compile this code with Coq, you also need to install a copy of the Metalib
library.  This library is available from https://github.com/plclub/metalib

The `src/` directory includes a Coq specification of a dependently typed
calculus with type-in-type, dependent functions, unit, products and sums.

Once Coq and metalib have been installed, the files in the `src/` directory 
can be compiled using 

    make coq

Contents
--------

The files that make up the Coq development include:

    - dqtt.ott     Specification of the entire system
    - dqtt_ott.v   Generated definition (from Ott, modified by hand)
    - dqtt_inf.v   Generated lemmas (from LNgen). 
    - tactics.v    General purpose tactics
    - metalib.v    metalib additions

    - beta.v       Axiomatization of beta-equivalence
    - usage_sig.v  Axiomatization of partially-ordered semiring

    - usage.v      Lemmas about working with usages and with graded contexts (language independent)
    - dctx.v     
    - dctx_sub. v 
    - semimodule.v

    - structural.v  Substitution and Weakening (Lemmas 6.2 and 6.3)
    - dqtt.v        Regularity, Preservation and Progress (Lemma 6.1, Theorems 6.4 and 6.5)

Commit message:

add link to extended version

README.md, after:

A Graded Dependent Type System
==============================

This repository includes Coq proofs for the results claimed in Section 7.2 of the 
paper "A graded dependent type system with a usage-aware semantics", by
Pritam Choudhury, Harley Eades III, Richard A. Eisenberg and Stephanie Weirich.
This paper has been conditionally accepted to POPL 2021.

The [extended version](ttps://github.com/sweirich/graded-haskell/blob/main/extended-version.pdf), of the paper is available from this site.

Artifact evaluators should read the file [ARTIFACT.md](https://github.com/sweirich/graded-haskell/blob/main/ARTIFACT.md).
In particular, a virtual machine is available for download from 
http://www.seas.upenn.edu/~sweirich/popl21-paper408.ova.

* Key results

The individual results can be found in the corresponding Coq files and theorem
statements. (All Coq files are in the `src` subdirectory.)

      Lemma 7.1 (Regularity)      dqtt.v: Typing_regularity
      Lemma 7.2 (Substitution)    structural.v: substitution
      Lemma 7.3 (Weakening)       structural.v: weakening
      Theorem 7.4 (Preservation)  dqtt.v: preservation
      Theorem 7.5 (Progress)      dqtt.v: progress

* System specification

The full specification of the type system shown in Section 6.1 is in the file
`dqtt_ott.v`. This file has been mechanically generated from the Ott
specification `dqtt.ott`, but then slightly edited. For convenience, we also
provide the file
[spec.pdf](https://github.com/sweirich/graded-haskell/blob/main/spec.pdf) that
contains a typeset version of the system, also generated from `dqtt.ott`.

* Assumptions 

The axioms that our development relies on are in the files `usage_sig.v`
and `beta.v`.  The first file is an axiomatization of the partially-ordered
semi-ring structure, as described in Section 2.1 of the paper. The second file
describes the axiomatization of beta-equivalence as specified in Definition
7.1.

Installation and Compilation Instructions
------------------------------------------

This development has been tested with The Coq Proof Assistant, version 8.11.1
(May 2020).

To compile this code with Coq, you also need to install a copy of the Metalib
library.  This library is available from https://github.com/plclub/metalib

The `src/` directory includes a Coq specification of a dependently typed
calculus with type-in-type, dependent functions, unit, products and sums.

Once Coq and metalib have been installed, the files in the `src/` directory 
can be compiled using 

    make coq

Contents
--------

The files that make up the Coq development include:

    - dqtt.ott     Specification of the entire system
    - dqtt_ott.v   Generated definition (from Ott, modified by hand)
    - dqtt_inf.v   Generated lemmas (from LNgen). 
    - tactics.v    General purpose tactics
    - metalib.v    metalib additions

    - beta.v       Axiomatization of beta-equivalence
    - usage_sig.v  Axiomatization of partially-ordered semiring

    - usage.v      Lemmas about working with usages and with graded contexts (language independent)
    - dctx.v     
    - dctx_sub. v 
    - semimodule.v

    - structural.v  Substitution and Weakening (Lemmas 6.2 and 6.3)
    - dqtt.v        Regularity, Preservation and Progress (Lemma 6.1, Theorems 6.4 and 6.5)
